every time a new arm chip comes out for
Windows devices it's been disappointing
for me like over the past few years
their track record has been so bad that
I just stopped caring about arm-based
Windows laptops I stopped reviewing them
because I didn't I didn't want to waste
my time and your time showing you
devices that just are not great so when
Qualcomm announced their new trip the
Snapdragon X Elite and they hyped the
hell out of it there's a part of me that
was interested because it was the paper
spec looked amazing but then there was a
bigger part of me that was like this is
is this thing going to suck like it has
always sucked turns out it's awesome
like straight awesome really good
performance even when emulating x86
awesome battery life like crazy good
battery life and the pricing is
surprisingly good like this is a device
you get an OLED screen and this is like
cheaper than MacBook a it's like this is
so good okay let's get into it so this
device here Asus Vivo book S15 really
good example of what this chip can do
and I think this Chip is going to change
the trajectory of what Windows laptops
are going to be all right the
performance is really fast in synthetic
benchmarks the S15 is on par with
basically any of the top tier laptops
right now and if you compared to what
Apple has it's in between what a MacBook
Air and the MacBook Pro can put out now
when I tested it in workflows with apps
that are natively built for arm you get
really nice performance on this device
now none of these apps really stood out
as being faster than expected like they
weren't beating their x86 counterparts
but there were no obvious deficiencies
when it came to performance on Native
arm apps but then the more important
question is how does this device perform
when it comes to emulation like when you
take an x86 app one that hasn't been
optimized for arm and you run it on this
machine and surprisingly it's still
really good it isn't perfect like there
is an obvious performance hit when you
run x86 apps but it is so much better
than anything I would have expected from
Windows at least compared to what we've
seen in the past also considering the
confidence that Microsoft and their
Hardware Partners seem to have in this
chip and this launch I would be I just
expect developers to get on board with
this very soon like you can just tell
that there's a much stronger push to
this new arm ecosystem than there ever
has been when it comes to Windows now in
terms of Graphics the raw capabilities
of the onboard GPU are decent it depends
on the Benchmark you throw at it but at
the time of shooting this there aren't a
lot of native arm apps that really lean
on the GPU Photoshop from Adobe can and
that's been updated to natively run on
arm and the performance is pretty much
on par with what we've seen from x86
chips now the other fairly popular Adobe
app Premiere which is used for video
editing is only available as an x86 app
currently they are working on an ARM
version but even in emulation mode and
this is the thing that blew me away it
is completely usable on the Viv book S15
so I remember like a year and a half ago
I remember doing I was going to shoot a
video on the the Microsoft Surface Pro
that you like the the sq3 chip like the
Qualcomm chip that was supposed to be
really good and I remember trying to
emulate premiere on that thing and it
was just God awful and that was the
moment like right when that happened I
was like I'm not going to I'm not doing
this anymore I'm not going to I'm not
going to review these devices when it
can't even handle x86 apps in a usable
manner I mean look how bad that sq3 chip
performed but now with Snapdragon X
Elite it is totally viable I have to be
clear here I'm not trying to say that
you know emulated apps are the future
and that they're awesome they're they're
never going to be as good as a native
app but the fact that you don't have to
depend on a developer to make your app
run on this thing natively you don't
have to depend on that interaction to be
able to use your stuff like it just apps
work also games now these are not gaming
machines but just out of curiosity I
tested it out this device can pump out
respectable frame rates even in
emulation now I did notice that a bunch
of games were automatically upscaled so
some of the image quality was blurry
there's also occasional stutter in the
games I don't think it's Stutter from
like a hardware thing I'm convinced it's
completely a software issue because The
Thermals were fine uh and sometimes you
go for a long stretch like just
sustained frame rate but eventually you
get a stutter and for I think for like
casual games was perfectly fine but if I
was trying to play like a competitive
shooter like a ranked competitive
OverWatch game this is not usable like I
wouldn't I wouldn't be comfortable
playing on this machine but I think that
just gets resolved over time with
software tweaks now the other thing is
fan noise and thermals the Viva book S15
isn't completely silent it does have a
pair of fans on there but it's so quiet
compared to what you would typically get
in this space with this kind of
performance like if you're watching a
show or just doing some like light
browsing on the net the fans will
literally be inaudible maybe if you
stick your ear right up to the Bottom
Grill like you could maybe hear
something then but it's for all intents
and purposes a silent casual Computing
experience but if you do need to step it
up and you want to play some games or do
some kind of heavier Computing task the
fans will ramp up and even then it's
still really quiet now the other thing
the big thing for me is battery life the
battery life on the Viva book S15 is
really good it's better than anything
we've seen from Intel including their
new core Ultra stuff it's better than
anything we've seen from AMD it's very
similar to the battery life that Apple
has going on for their MacBooks but
because the Vivo book has a differen
sized battery it's difficult to compare
it directly to that but just in general
the battery life with this new chip
especially on the S15 is like way better
than what we've seen in the past the
other thing is sleep so typically when
it comes to Windows laptops and you put
them to sleep it's very common for
Batteries to continue to drain even when
the device is supposed to be asleep but
on this new Snapdragon X Elite chip I
saw 2% sometimes just 1% battery drain
overnight which is just the way that
battery drain should be if we're being
honest here uh okay so this screen is an
OLED panel and it is so good for the
price so this is a 120 HZ very color
capable OLED screen it's fast it's
bright and it also has a webcam with a
physical shutter on the top so you can
close it up for privacy but this type of
display is just not you can't get a
screen like this on an regular x86
laptop right now for this kind of
pricing so this is a $12.99 machine you
get 16 gigs of RAM it is baked on boards
you can't upgrade that we also get one
tab of storage that is readily
upgradeable because you have full access
to the internals uh also you get an
amazing selection of ports like on a
device of this caliber you don't expect
ports like this you get two USB a two
USBC uh HDMI micro SD and it's just like
such a solid overall system and then the
keyboard so this keyboard I do like the
way that the keyboard types I'm pretty
fast on it and you get a number pad on
the right it's a narrow one but you do
get number pad but I don't like the
backlighting so uh when the back
lighting is off the Legends are quite
visible like all the lettering and the
numbers you can see it but the moment
you turn the back Lighting on uh in
certain lighting conditions it's
actually harder to read and it's just
because of just the color of the back
lighting and the color of the keys it's
it's not ideal and I feel like they
should have learned their lesson
from the original like G14 when they the
Rog devices they had a keyboard and a
lighting system like this and I think a
lot of people complained but I'm just
surprised that they continued with that
style of lighting and key colors on this
device it is RGB backlighting but the
colors never seem particularly vibrant
to me now my overall take on the Vivo
book S15 this product with its awesome
screen and great performance and really
good battery life like this couldn't
exist at this kind of price point if it
wasn't for the chip like the Snapdragon
X Elite chip
really defines what the Windows laptop
experience can be like you just couldn't
do this before certainly not for $12.99
now I think Microsoft has a work cutout
for them in order for this product to
launch in the manner that I think it
should in the manner that it deserves
there needs to be a lot of polish on
Microsoft's end to make everything just
extra nice now if you'll notice I did
not mention anything to do with co-pilot
plus so that's one of the features of
this new chip it has AI capabilities
baked into the hardware from the npu
that allowed to interact with cool new
software from Microsoft however at the
time of shooting this that software is
not retail ready I've seen it I'd love
to talk about it it's really cool stuff
but it's not ready yet that'll be a
future video but just based on the
merits of the hardware alone and what
this chip is capable of I really think
these new chips and the S15 are
something special okay hope you guys
enjoy this video